# Introduction to browser events

An event is a signal that something has happened.

**Mouse events:**

- `click` – when the mouse clicks on an element (touchscreen devices generate it on a tap). 
- `contextmenu` – `when` the mouse right-clicks on an element. 
- `mouseover` / `mouseout` – when the mouse cursor comes over / leaves an element. 
- `mousedown` / `mouseup` – when the mouse button is pressed / released over an element. 
- `mousemove` – when the mouse is moved.

**Keyboard events:**

- `keydown` and `keyup` – when a keyboard key is pressed and released.

**Form element events:**

- `submit` – when the visitor submits a `<form>`. 
- `focus` – when the visitor focuses on an element, e.g. on an `<input>`.

**Document events:**

- `DOMContentLoaded` – when the HTML is loaded and processed, DOM is fully built.

**CSS events:**

- `transitionend` – when a CSS-animation finishes.

## Event handlers

To react on events we can assign a _handler_ – a function that runs in case of an event.

### HTML-attribute

A handler can be set in HTML with an attribute named `on<event>`.

```
<input value="Click me" onclick="alert('Click!')" type="button">
```

### DOM property

We can assign a handler using a DOM property `on<event>`.

```
elem.onclick = function() {
    alert('Thank you');
};
```

**As there’s only one `onclick` property, we can’t assign more than one event handler.**

To remove a handler – assign `elem.onclick = null`.

## Accessing the element: this

The value of `this` inside a handler is the element.

## Possible mistakes

Don't invoke function when assign it to handler.

**Don’t use `setAttribute` for handlers.**

```
// a click on <body> will generate errors,
// because attributes are always strings, function becomes a string
document.body.setAttribute('onclick', function() { alert(1) });
```

**DOM-property case matters.**

`elem.onclick`, not `elem.ONCLICK`.

## addEventListener

Used to assign multiple handlers to one event.

```
element.addEventListener(event, handler, [options]);
```

- `event` - event name, e.g. "click".
- `handler` - the handler function. 
- `options` - an additional optional object with properties.
    - `once` - if true, remove listener after it triggers.
    - `capture` - the phase where to handle the event.
    - `passive` - if `true`, then the handler will not call `preventDefault()`

```
element.removeEventListener(event, handler, [options]);
```

***Removal requires the same function.***

***For some events, handlers only work with `addEventListener`.***
For instance, the `DOMContentLoaded` and `transitionend` event.

## Event object

When an event happens, the browser creates an _event object_, puts details into it and passes it as an argument to the handler.

Some properties of `event` object:

- `event.type` - event type, here it’s "click".
- `event.currentTarget` - element that handled the event. Like `this`.
- `event.clientX / event.clientY` - window-relative coordinates of the cursor, for pointer events.

***The event object is also available in HTML handlers.***

## Object handlers: handleEvent

We can assign not just a function, but an object as an event handler using `addEventListener`. 
When an event occurs, its `handleEvent` method is called.

We could also use a class for that.




