# Promise

```
let promise = new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {
  // executor (the producing code, "singer")
});
```

- `resolve(value)` — if the job is finished successfully, with result `value`. 
- `reject(error)` — if an error has occurred, `error` is the error object.

The `promise` object returned by the `new Promise` constructor has these internal properties:

- `state` — initially `pending`, then changes to either `fulfilled` when resolve is called or `rejected` when `reject` is called. 
- `result` — initially `undefined`, then changes to `value` when `resolve(value)` called or `error` when `reject(error)` is called.

the executor should perform a job (usually something that takes time) and then call `resolve` or `reject` to change the state of the corresponding promise object.

***There can be only a single result or an error.***

***Reject with `Error` objects***

***The `state` and `result` are internal***

## Consumers: then, catch, finally

- `then` - first argument - function that runs when the promise is resolved, and receives the result. 
Second argument is a function that runs when the promise is rejected, and receives the error.
- `catch` - argument is a function that runs when the promise is rejected, and receives the error.
- `finally` - no arguments, run after all, do some job, passes result through.

***We can attach handlers to settled promises***

Promise:
- Allow us to do things in the natural order.
- Can call `.then` on as many times as we want.

Callbacks:
- We must know what to do with the result before.
- There can be only one callback.


