# Function object, NFE

In JavaScript, functions are objects.

## The “name” property

Function’s name is accessible as the “name” property.

```
function func() {...}

func.name
```

It also works if the assignment is done via a default value.

```
function f(sayHi = function() {}) {
  alert(sayHi.name); // sayHi (works!)
}
```

This feature is called a “contextual name”. If the function does not provide one, then in an assignment it is figured out from the context.

Object methods have names too.

There are cases when there’s no way to figure out the right name. 

```
// function created inside array
let arr = [function() {}];

alert( arr[0].name ); // <empty string>
```

## The “length” property

Property “length” returns the number of function parameters.

Rest parameters are not counted.

## Custom properties

We can also add properties of our own.

***A property is not a variable.***
It does not define a local variable inside it. That has no effect on its execution.

Function properties can replace closures sometimes.

```
function makeCounter() {
  // instead of:
  // let count = 0

  function counter() {
    return counter.count++;
  };

  counter.count = 0;

  return counter;
}

let counter = makeCounter();
alert( counter() ); // 0
alert( counter() ); // 1

counter.count = 10; // change propery. In closure we cannot do it
alert( counter() ); // 10
```

The `count` is now stored in the function directly, not in its outer Lexical Environment.

## Named Function Expression

Named Function Expression, or NFE, is a term for Function Expressions that have a name.

```
let sayHi = function func(who) {
  alert(`Hello, ${who}`);
};
```

It did not make function a Function Declaration.

It is useful, since `sayHi` can change in our code, but `func` cannot.

There are two special things about the name `func`, that are the reasons for it:

1. It allows the function to reference itself internally. 
2. It is not visible outside the function.


***There’s no such thing for Function Declaration.***

\