# Mouse events

## Mouse event types

- `mousedown/mouseup` - Mouse button is clicked/released over an element. 
- `mouseover/mouseout` - Mouse pointer comes over/out from an element. 
- `mousemove` - Every mouse move over an element triggers that event. 
- `click` - Triggers after mousedown and then mouseup over the same element if the left mouse button was used. 
- `dblclick` - Triggers after two clicks on the same element within a short timeframe.
- `contextmenu` - Triggers when the right mouse button is pressed. There are other ways to open a context menu, e.g. using a special keyboard key, it triggers in that case also, so it’s not exactly the mouse event.


## Events order

In cases when a single action initiates multiple events, their order is fixed.

`mousedown` → `mouseup` → `click`.

## Mouse button

The possible values of `event.button` are:

- Left button (primary)	= `0`
- Middle button (auxiliary)	= `1`
- Right button (secondary) = `2`
- X1 button (back) = `3`
- X2 button (forward) = `4`

## Modifiers: shift, alt, ctrl and meta

Event properties:

- `shiftKey`: Shift 
- `altKey`: Alt (or Opt for Mac)
- `ctrlKey`: Ctrl 
- `metaKey`: Cmd for Mac

They are `true` if the corresponding key was pressed during the event.  

***Attention: on Mac it’s usually Cmd instead of Ctrl.***

***There are also mobile devices.***

## Coordinates: clientX/Y, pageX/Y

All mouse events provide coordinates in two flavours:

- Window-relative: `clientX` and `clientY`.
- Document-relative: `pageX` and `pageY`.

## Preventing selection on mousedown

`onmousedown="return false"` - prevents double click text selection.

***Preventing copying.***
```
<div oncopy="alert('Copying forbidden!');return false"></div>
```
