# Moving the mouse: mouseover/out, mouseenter/leave

## Events mouseover/mouseout, relatedTarget

For `mouseover`:

- `event.target` – is the element where the mouse came over.
- `event.relatedTarget` – is the element from which the mouse came (`relatedTarget` → `target`).

For `mouseout` the reverse:

- `event.target` – is the element that the mouse left.
- `event.relatedTarget` – is the new under-the-pointer element, that mouse left for (`target` → `relatedTarget`).

***`relatedTarget` can be `null`.***
Came from window.

## Skipping elements

The `mousemove` event triggers when the mouse moves. The browser checks the mouse position from time to time.

If the visitor is moving the mouse very fast then some DOM-elements may be skipped.

***If `mouseover` triggered, there must be `mouseout`.***

## Mouseout when leaving for a child

An important feature of `mouseout` – it triggers, when the pointer moves from an element to its descendant.

According to the browser logic, the mouse cursor may be only over a single element at any time – the most nested one and top by z-index.* 

The `mouseover` event on a descendant bubbles up.

**If we don’t examine `event.target` inside the handlers, then it may seem that the mouse pointer left `#parent` element, and then immediately came back over it.**

## Events mouseenter and mouseleave

`mouseenter/mouseleave` are like `mouseover/mouseout`.

But there are two important differences:

1. Transitions inside the element, to/from descendants, are not counted. 
2. Events `mouseenter/mouseleave` do not bubble.

## Event delegation

`mouseenter/mouseleave` don't bubble, so use `mouseover/mouseout`.


