# Walking the DOM

## On top: documentElement and body


- `<html>` = `document.documentElement`
- `<body>` = `document.body`
- `<head>` = `document.head`

***There’s a catch: `document.body` can be null.***
It will occur if browser haven't parsed it yet, script is in `<head>` tag.

***In the DOM world `null` means “doesn’t exist”***

## Children: childNodes, firstChild, lastChild

- **Child nodes (or children)** – elements that are direct children.
- **Descendants** – all elements that are nested in the given one.

**The `childNodes` collection lists all child nodes, including text nodes.**

**Properties `firstChild` and `lastChild` give fast access to the first and last children.**

Function to check child: `elem.hasChildNodes()`.

## DOM collections

`childNodes` - is not an array. It's a *collection* - a special array-like iterable object.

1. We can use `for..of` to iterate over it.
2. Array methods won’t work, because it’s not an array.

**DOM collections are read-only.**
`childNodes[i] = ...` - won't work.

**DOM collections are live.**
They reflect the current state of DOM.

**Don’t use `for..in` to loop over collections.**

## Siblings and the parent

Siblings are nodes that are children of the same parent.

The next sibling is in `nextSibling` property, and the previous one – in `previousSibling`.  The parent is available as `parentNode`.

## Element-only navigation

Navigation *properties* listed above refer to all nodes.

Only element nodes:

- `children` – only those children that are element nodes. 
- `firstElementChild`, `lastElementChild` – first and last element children. 
- `previousElementSibling`, `nextElementSibling` – neighbor elements. 
- `parentElement` – parent element.

***Why `parentElement?` Can the parent be not an element?***

```
alert( document.documentElement.parentNode ); // document
alert( document.documentElement.parentElement ); // null
```

## More links: tables


