# Searching: getElement*, querySelector*

## document.getElementById or just id

- `document.getElementById(id)` - returns element with `id`.

***Please don’t use id-named global variables to access elements.***

***The id must be unique.***

***Only `document.getElementById`, not `anyElem.getElementById`.***

## querySelectorAll

- `elem.querySelectorAll(css)` - returns all elements inside `elem` matching the given CSS selector.

***Can use pseudo-classes as well.***

## querySelector

- `elem.querySelector(css)` returns the first element for the given CSS selector.

## matches

- `elem.matches(css)` does not look for anything, it merely checks if elem matches the given CSS-selector. It returns true or false.

## closest

- `elem.closest(css)` looks for the nearest ancestor that matches the CSS-selector. The elem itself is also included in the search.

## getElementsBy*

- `elem.getElementsByTagName(tag)` - looks for elements with the given tag and returns the collection of them. The tag parameter can also be a star "*" for “any tags”. 
- `elem.getElementsByClassName(className)` - returns elements that have the given CSS class. 
- `document.getElementsByName(name)` - returns elements with the given name attribute, document-wide. Very rarely used.

***Don’t forget the "s" letter!***

***It returns a collection, not an element!***

## Live collections

All methods `"getElementsBy*"` return a live collection.

`querySelectorAll` returns a static collection.

***

- `elemA.contains(elemB)` returns true if `elemB` is inside `elemA` (a descendant of `elemA`) or when `elemA==elemB`.

