# Node properties: type, tag and contents

## DOM node classes

The root of the hierarchy is **EventTarget**, that is inherited by **Node**, and other DOM nodes inherit from it.

- **EventTarget** – is the root “abstract” class. Objects of that class are never created. It serves as a base, so that all DOM nodes support so-called “events”. 
- **Node** – is also an “abstract” class, serving as a base for DOM nodes. It provides the core tree functionality: `parentNode`, `nextSibling`, `childNodes` and so on (they are getters). Objects of `Node` class are never created. Node classes that inherit from it: `Text`(text nodes), `Element`(element nodes), `Comment`(comment nodes). 
- **Element** – is a base class for DOM elements. It provides element-level navigation like `nextElementSibling`, `children` and searching methods like `getElementsByTagName`, `querySelector`. A browser supports not only HTML, but also XML and SVG. The Element class serves as a base for more specific classes: `SVGElement`, `XMLElement` and `HTMLElement`. 
- **HTMLElement** – is finally the basic class for all HTML elements. It is inherited by concrete HTML elements:
  - **HTMLInputElement** – the class for `<input>` elements,
  - **HTMLBodyElement** – the class for `<body>` elements,
  - **HTMLAnchorElement** – the class for `<a>` elements,
  - …and so on.

`<span>`, `<section>`, `<article>` do not have any specific properties, so they are instances of `HTMLElement` class.

Inheritance order:

- `HTMLInputElement` – this class provides input-specific properties, 
- `HTMLElement` – it provides common HTML element methods (and getters/setters), 
- `Element` – provides generic element methods, 
- `Node` – provides common DOM node properties, 
- `EventTarget` – gives the support for events (to be covered), 
- …and finally it inherits from `Object`, so “plain object” methods like `hasOwnProperty` are also available.

***`console.dir(elem)` versus `console.log(elem)`***

- `console.log(elem)` shows the element DOM tree.
- `console.dir(elem)` shows the element as a DOM object.

## The “nodeType” property

- `elem.nodeType == 1` for element nodes, 
- `elem.nodeType == 3` for text nodes, 
- `elem.nodeType == 9` for the document object

## Tag: nodeName and tagName

- The `tagName` property exists only for `Element` nodes.
- The `nodeName` is defined for any `Node`:
  - for elements it means the same as `tagName`.
  - for other node types (text, comment, etc.) it has a string with the node type.

***The tag name is always uppercase except in XML mode.***

## innerHTML: the contents

The `innerHTML` property allows to get the HTML inside the element as a string.

We can try to insert invalid HTML, the browser will fix errors.

***Scripts don’t *execute* with innerHTML.***

### Beware: “innerHTML+=” does a full overwrite

`innerHTML+=` does this:

- The old contents is removed. 
- The new `innerHTML` is written instead (a concatenation of the old and the new one).

**As the content is “zeroed-out” and rewritten from the scratch, all images and other resources will be reloaded.**

## outerHTML: full HTML of the element

The `outerHTML` property contains the full HTML of the element. That’s like `innerHTML` plus the element itself.

**Beware: unlike innerHTML, writing to outerHTML does not change the element. Instead, it replaces it in the DOM.**

## nodeValue/data: text node content

For all nodes: `nodeValue` and `data` properties. They are the same.

## textContent: pure text

The `textContent` provides access to the text inside the element: only text, minus all `<tags>`.

**Writing to `textContent` is much more useful, because it allows to write text the “safe way”.**

## The “hidden” property

The “hidden” attribute and the DOM property specifies whether the element is visible or not.

```
elem.hidden = true;
```

Technically, `hidden` works the same as `style="display:none"`. But it’s shorter to write.

## More properties

- `value` – the value for `<input>`, `<select>` and `<textarea>` (`HTMLInputElement`, `HTMLSelectElement`…). 
- `href` – the “href” for `<a href="...">` (`HTMLAnchorElement`). 
- `id` – the value of “id” attribute, for all elements (`HTMLElement`).


