# Attributes and properties

- Attributes – is what’s written in HTML.
- Properties – is what’s in DOM objects.

## DOM properties

DOM nodes are regular JavaScript objects. We can alter them.

## HTML attributes

So when an element has `id` or another standard attribute, the corresponding property gets created.

If attribute is unusual for element, property for it doesn't appear.

- `elem.hasAttribute(name)` – checks for existence. 
- `elem.getAttribute(name)` – gets the value. 
- `elem.setAttribute(name, value)` – sets the value. 
- `elem.removeAttribute(name)` – removes the attribute.

`elem.attributes`: a collection of objects that belong to a built-in `Attr` class, with `name` and value properties.

HTML attributes have the following features:

- Their name is case-insensitive (`id` is same as `ID`). 
- Their values are always strings.

## Property-attribute synchronization

When a standard attribute changes, the corresponding property is auto-updated.

But there are exclusions, for instance `input.value` synchronizes only from attribute → to property, but not back:

```
input.setAttribute('value', 'text'); // works
input.value = 'newValue'; // no changes
```

## DOM properties are typed

DOM properties are not always strings. `input.checked` property - boolean, `style` property is an object.

```
alert(a.getAttribute('href')); // #hello

// property
alert(a.href ); // full URL in the form http://site.com/page#hello
```

## Non-standard attributes, dataset

Sometimes non-standard attributes are used to pass custom data from HTML to JavaScript, or to “mark” HTML-elements for JavaScript.

To avoid conflicts, there exist `data-*` attributes.

**All attributes starting with “data-” are reserved for programmers’ use. They are available in the `dataset` property.**

```
<body data-about="Elephants">
```

Multiword attributes like `data-order-state` become camel-cased: `dataset.orderState`.





