# Styles and classes

There are generally two ways to style an element:

- Create a class in CSS and add it: `<div class="...">`.
- Write properties directly into `style`: `<div style="...">`.

We should always prefer CSS classes to `style`.

`style` is acceptable if we calculate coordinates of an element dynamically and want to set them from JavaScript

## className and classList

`elem.className` corresponds to the "class" attribute.

If we assign something to `elem.className`, it replaces the whole string of classes.

The `elem.classList` is a special object.

Methods of classList:

- `elem.classList.add/remove("class")` – adds/removes the class. 
- `elem.classList.toggle("class")` – adds the class if it doesn’t exist, otherwise removes it. 
- `elem.classList.contains("class")` – checks for the given class, returns `true/false`.

`classList` is iterable, so we can list all classes with `for..of`.

## Element style

```
document.body.style.backgroundColor = prompt('background color?', 'green');
```

***Prefixed properties.***
A dash means upper case.

## Resetting the style property

Instead of `delete elem.style.display` we should assign an empty string to it: `elem.style.display = ""`.

***Full rewrite with `style.cssText`***

## Mind the units

Don’t forget to add CSS units to values.

## Computed styles: getComputedStyle

The style property operates only on the value of the `"style"` attribute, without any CSS cascade.

So we can’t read anything that comes from CSS classes using `elem.style`.

`getComputedStyle(element, [pseudo])`:

- `element` - element to read the value for.
- `pseudo` - pseudo-element if required, for instance `::before`.

***Computed and resolved values.***

1. A computed style value is the value after all CSS rules and CSS inheritance is applied, as the result of the CSS cascade.
2. A resolved style value is the one finally applied to the element.

Nowadays `getComputedStyle` actually returns the resolved value of the property, usually in px for geometry.

***getComputedStyle requires the full property name.***
Like `paddingLeft` or `marginTop` or `borderTopWidth`.

***Styles applied to `:visited` links are hidden!***





