# Element size and scrolling

## Sample element

***Mind the scrollbar.***
Scrollbar takes some space from width.

***The padding-bottom area may be filled with text.***

## offsetParent, offsetLeft/Top

The `offsetParent` is the nearest ancestor that the browser uses for calculating coordinates during rendering.

That’s the nearest ancestor that is one of the following:

1. CSS-positioned (`position` is `absolute`, `relative`, `fixed` or `sticky`), or
2. `<td>`, `<th>`, or `<table>`, or
3. `<body>`.

Properties `offsetLeft/offsetTop` provide x/y coordinates relative to `offsetParent` upper-left corner.

There are several occasions when `offsetParent` is `null`:

1. For not shown elements (`display:none` or not in the document). 
2. For `<body>` and `<html>`. 
3. For elements with `position:fixed`.

## offsetWidth/Height

They provide the “outer” width/height of the element. Or, in other words, its full size including borders.

***Geometry properties are zero/null for elements that are not displayed.***

## clientTop/Left

- `clientLeft` – left border width 
- `clientTop` – top border width

But to be precise – these properties are not border width/height, but rather relative coordinates of the inner side from the outer side.

## clientWidth/Height

These properties provide the size of the area inside the element borders.

They include the content width together with paddings, but without the scrollbar.

## scrollWidth/Height

These properties are like `clientWidth/clientHeight`, but they also include the scrolled out (hidden) parts.


## scrollLeft/scrollTop

Properties `scrollLeft/scrollTop` are the width/height of the hidden, scrolled out part of the element.

`scrollTop` is “how much is scrolled up”.

***`scrollLeft/scrollTop` can be modified.***
Most of the geometry properties here are read-only, but `scrollLeft/scrollTop` can be changed, and the browser will scroll the element.

## Don’t take width/height from CSS

There are two reasons:

1. CSS `width/height` depend on another property: `box-sizing` that defines “what is” CSS width and height. A change in `box-sizing` for CSS purposes may break such JavaScript.
2. CSS `width/height` may be `auto`, for instance for an inline element.

And there’s one more reason: a scrollbar.


