# Numbers

- Regular numbers in JavaScript are stored in 64-bit.
- BigInt numbers, to represent integers of arbitrary length.

## More ways to write a number

We can use underscore `_` as the separator:

```
let billion = 1_000_000_000;
```

Write `7.3bn` for 7 billion 300 million.

```
let billion = 1e9;
```

### Hex, binary and octal numbers

- Hexadecimal:

```
alert( 0xff ); // 255
```

- Binary:

```
let a = 0b11111111; // binary form of 255
```

- Octal

```
let b = 0o377;
```

## toString(base)

```
let num = 255;

alert( num.toString(16) );  // ff
alert( num.toString(2) );   // 11111111
```

***Two dots to call a method:***

```
alert( 123456..toString(36) ); // 2n9c
```

If we placed a single dot: `123456.toString(36)`, then there would be an error, because JavaScript syntax implies the decimal part after the first dot. And if we place one more dot, then JavaScript knows that the decimal part is empty and now goes the method.

Also could write `(123456).toString(36)`.

## Rounding

- `Math.floor` - down
- `Math.ceil` - up
- `Math.round` - to the nearest integer
- `Math.trunc` - removes anything after the decimal point

`toFixed(n)` rounds the number to `n` digits after the point and returns a string representation of the result.
Similar `Math.round`.

## Imprecise calculations

```
alert( 0.1 + 0.2 ); // 0.30000000000000004
```

```
let sum = 0.1 + 0.2;
alert( sum.toFixed(2) ); // 0.30
```

***Two zeroes: 0 and -0.***

## Tests: isFinite and isNaN

`isNaN(value)` converts its argument to a number and then tests it for being `NaN`.

`isFinite(value)` converts its argument to a number and returns `true` if it’s a regular number, not `NaN/Infinity/-Infinity`.

The value NaN is unique in that it does not equal anything, including itself:

```
alert( NaN === NaN ); // false
```

***Compare with `Object.is`***

```
Object.is(NaN, NaN) === true
Object.is(0, -0) === false
```

In all other cases, `Object.is(a, b)` is the same as `a === b`.

## parseInt and parseFloat

```
alert( parseInt('100px') ); // 100
alert( parseFloat('12.5em') ); // 12.5
alert( parseInt('a123') ); // NaN, the first symbol stops the process
```

*** The second argument of `parseInt(str, radix)`***
```
alert( parseInt('0xff', 16) ); // 255
```

## Other math functions

- `Math.random()` - returns a random number from 0 to 1 (not including 1).
- `Math.max(a, b, c...) / Math.min(a, b, c...)`
- `Math.pow(n, power)` - returns n raised to the given power.
